>> Will Sentance: Folk we're gonna walk
through this line by line this is our
final function for
our higher order functions.
So we're gonna walk through
this line by line and
to kick us off Mohammed line
one no this was a mistake.
Mohammed line one,
what are we doing Mohammed?
Talk me through line one of this
function of this set of code.
>> Mohammed: Declaring a function
called copyArray, and manipulating it.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect thank you, man.
CopyArrayManipulate, and of course, we're
at the global level right, aren't we?
We're not inside a function, so
where's that being stored, Mohammed?
>> Mohammed: In the global memory.
>> Will Sentance: In the global memory.
There it is.
I'm gonna draw it as
a little function box,
a little function, a whole description.
Okay, next line is what, Shelby?
>> Shelby: Declaring
the function multiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: There it is,
multiplyBy2.
As a little baby function that
only takes in a single what?
>> multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Little baby function, so
it takes in a single element,
and then multiplies it by 2.
Little baby function, there it is.
And let's just highlight it slightly so
we know which function it is.
And if I were, Shelby, in the line after
that definition, declaration multiplyBy2.
If I were to console.log.
Let's write it up.
If I were to do this, console.log
multiplyBy2, no parenths.
What would this display
on my console Shelby.
Just to make sure we're really clear,
what would this display on my console?
>> Shelby: Undefined.
>> Will Sentance: Undefined,
What have we stored in multiplyBy2?
JavaScript goes and
looks in global memory, sees multiplyBy2.
What's it see?
>> multiple: The whole function.
>> Will Sentance: The whole
function definition.
So if I were console log
the word multiplyBy2,
what would I see in my console, Mohamed?
>> Mohammed: Just the whole function.
>> Will Sentance: The whole function
definition, multiplyBy2 is label for
my whole function description.
Okay, okay,
it is the whole function definition.
Meaning, if I then pass
multiplyBy2 in to instructions,
I'm not passing undefined in.
I'm not running copyArrayandManipulate
with multiplyBy2 as actually undefined.
No, it's gonna literally be
the whole function definition,
being passed in to replace
the placeholder word, instructions.
All right, so now, we've declared
copyArrayandManipulate declared
multiplyBy2, what's the next
line tell us to do?
Matthew, what's the final line
on the left hand side say?
>> Matthew: Leb results.
>> Will Sentance: Which is saying
give JavaScript label results, right?
>> Matthew: Right.
>> Will Sentance: Good, and Matthew,
do we know what's gonna be
stored Matthew in result yet?
>> Matthew: No.
>> Will Sentance: No,
cuz we've got to go run that function.
Matthew, how do I know I've gotta
go run that function what symbols?
>> Matthew: Paranthesis.
>> Will Sentance: Good job
Matthew very nice yeah correct.
I'm gonna go run that function.
It's undefined for now.
And I'm gonna do it
copyArrayManipulate code with what?
What's our first argument, Griffin?
>> Griffin: Is the array 1, 2, 3.
>> Will Sentance: Good,
there it is, array 1, 2, 3.
And our second value, Griffin?
>> Griffin: Is the function multiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: Spot on, multiplyBy2 and
it's the whole function definition,
right Shelby?
It's a whole function definition that
wasn't a passive aggressive statement,
it sort of was but no, no.
It was not intentionally there.
The whole function definition, right?
The who node description,
if I would say, yeah.
I know,
it's the whole function definition.
Good job, there it is.
And the output, we're saying already that
we know that whatever gets returned out
of this function, whatever comes
out the bottom of this function,
is gonna be stored where, Shelby?
The output of running this function
is gonna be stored where Shelby?
>> Shelby: Global.
>> Will Sentance: In what label?
What's it say?
>> Shelby: In result.
>> Will Sentance: In result, exactly.
In result.
But we've got a whole set of
instructions copyArrayandManipulate,
that we've gotta run through line by line.
That's the thread of execution.
And we got a whole bunch of data
we gotta store, output array,
that's the variable environment,
the local memory.
What do we call those two things together?
Everyone together, a?
>> multiple: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect, there it is.
We're gonna create it, there it is,
execution context with a local memory.
Local memory,
in which anything we declare,
define, create inside of
the code of a running
copyArrayandManipulate stored
in there not in global.
So, at this point,
>> Will Sentance: Bob,
what's the first thing we do inside
copyArrayandManipulate before we even
get inside copyArrayandManipulate what's
the first thing we're gonna handle?
>> Bob: The placeholder passing array in.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
nice, so what do we say,
what's the posh way of saying
that we're gonna yeah here we go.
>> Bob: Sorry, the [LAUGH] placeholder.
>> Will Sentance: So what's the first
placeholder we've gotta handle?
>> Bob: The 1, 2, 3.
>> Will Sentance: Which is gonna
fill in what sort of a placeholder?
That's the actual value, the argument-
>> Bob: The array param.
>> Will Sentance: Array parameter,
exactly.
And what will array now be,
because of what you just said,
everywhere inside this function called?
1,2,3, spot on.
And now, Clara, Clara when someone's
on their phone, they get called upon.
Clara, we filled an array as 1,2,3,
we now have another parameter,
which is what?
>> Clara: Instructions.
>> Will Sentance: And
what is instructions, Clara,
going to be replaced with?
It's just a placeholder.
What's it gonna point to?
What's its value gonna be throughout
the life of this function call?
>> Clara: It's a function
the multiplyBy2 function.
>> Will Sentance: Spot on,
the entire multiplyBy2 functionality.
We no longer, are gonna refer
to it as multiplyBy2 inside.
We're gonna refer to these instructions.
But it is that entire function definition
that we gave birth to out here,
in global, we defined here and
then pass in,
to be available inside copyArrayManipulate
under its new label instructions.
So Clara, if I wanted to,
inside copyArrayManipulate,
run that multiplyBy2 functionality
in here under its new label,
what's the exact wording
I would use to run it?
>> Clara: You'd say instructions.
>> Will Sentance: Instructions,
I'm sorry, say that again.
>> Clara: Instructions, parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: Parentheses, I probably
wanna parse something because right if you
look at the definition and multiplyBy2
it's got a placeholder so I pass in 3.
Because instructions literally evaluate
to, that becomes the multiplyBy2 function.
Just like Array if we were
to go array position 1,
inside of here,
we are gonna look at this array.
Instructions, we are gonna
look at what it is.
It is the multiplyBy2 functionality.
It has literally replaced the placeholder,
that was previously
a placeholder instructions.
All right, let's walk through
it as precisely as we can, okay.
So we've done our parameters.
Art, we've done our parameters.
What's our next line in our local memory?
We've done our parameters, our arguments.
What's the next bit in our local memory?
>> Art: We're sending
our output to our array.
>> Will Sentance: Spot on, I'm gonna put
again our sort of working area over here.
So sort of not,
I have no idea but there we go.
Output exactly is an empty array.
There we go output, just so
we can work with this slightly easier.
Okay, big moment, Andrea,
we're gonna hit the body of that for
loop, we've done outputs and MD array,
we're gonna hit the body of that for loop.
First time we do,
what's the first, I guess,
variable of whose value
we're interested in?
JavaScript kind of works inwards,
outwards.
So what's the first one
we're interested in?
>> Andrea: I guess the i to zero.
>> Will Sentance: I is zero, spot on.
So i is zero, so
array index zero is what, Andrea?
>> Andrea: Sub zero one.
>> Will Sentance: It's spot on Andrea,
really nice.
So array sub zero is?
>> Andrea: 1.
>> Will Sentance: The value 1.
>> Andrea: Yes.
>> Will Sentance: My goodness, exactly.
There it is, the value 1.
And now that 1,
that means this little portion here, zero,
one, what's this instruction's placeholder
now being filled in with, Andrea?
>> Andrea: MultiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: The function,
multiplyBy2.
So actually,
what has this little portion here become,
but multiplyBy2 (1).
That's saying go run
the multiplyBy2 function.
And when we start running a function,
Andrea, what do we do?
We declare a brand new?
Everyone together.
Execution context.
We forgot to add this one
in the first place, well.
So copyArrayandManipulate.
When we started running it, we added it
to the call stack so it's already inside,
copyArrayandManipulate.
So you see JavaScript
needs to know these stuff.
There we are that's all that calls
that and yes we now exactly as
Andrea said start calling,
instructions which is really
just multiplyBy2, but
let's refer to as instructions here,
instructions, which is really just what,
Andrea?
>> Andrea: Parameter?
>> Will Sentance: What is
instructions really just?
>> Andrea: MultiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: MultiplyBy2,
and we pass in the what value?
>> Andrea: First value in the array.
>> Will Sentance: Which is?
>> Andrea: 1.
>> Will Sentance: 1, exactly.
And if we're calling it,
we're creating new execution context.
There it is,
with a local memory of it's own and
Andrea what happens to our call stack?
>> Andrea: It gets added
to the call stack.
>> Will Sentance: The call
to instructions,
multiplied by two there the same thing,
get's added to the call stack.
There it is.
Now we know when we finish running it,
where we gonna go back to, Andrea?
>> Andrea: It's gonna go back down-
>> Will Sentance: CopyArray exactly,
that's what stack is such a good way
of tracking this, you add something,
start running it.
When you finish running,
you wanna go out one step,
or you go down then you take it off and
your back out to copyArrayandManipulate.
And so as we go,
this is a tough bit Clara?
I'm inside the call to instructions, I've
passed which is really multiplyBy2 I've
passed in one, what's my first pairing of
label and data inside the local memory,
given this is really multiplyBy2 Clara?
>> Clara: So inputs.
>> Will Sentance: Input, exactly.
And it's assigned what?
>> Clara: You equate it with 1, right?
>> Will Sentance: The 1, exactly.
Exactly, and then we,
cuz we're now really running
the functionality of multiplyBy2 everyone.
So this portion here 0, 1, and
that one got thrown into instructions,
which is really multiplyBy2.
So that one got thrown in.
As input, and there it is,
shit, there it is, input 1.
And so we do 1 which is input by 2 and
return that 2 out.
Which means now multiplyBy2 with
the input of 1 this whole statement.
multiplyBy2 has evaluated,
has become that output value 2.
And what do we do with that 2, Andrea?
>> Andrea: We times it.
>> Will Sentance: What do we do with
that evaluated result, Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: We push it into the output.
>> Will Sentance: We push it into output,
spot on, there it is.
And what happens to our execution context,
Lindsey?
>> Lindsey: It goes away.
>> Will Sentance: It goes away.
We poshly say it gets popped off.
>> Lindsey: It gets popped off.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
it goes away, but it's a for loop.
It's a for loop so what happens.
Even though we throw away our
execution context, it's all gone for
the running of instructions
that first time.
Well, what do you know?
It's a for loop, so
we're gonna hit the body of the for
loop again, and this time, Griffin.
This time Griffin, what is the value of i?
>> Griffin: 1.
>> Will Sentance: 1 and
therefore we get array sub one which is?
>> Griffin: 2.
>> Will Sentance: And
we take that 2, and do what with it?
>> Griffin: Pass it into instruction.
>> Will Sentance: Which is really just?
>> Griffin: MultiplyBy2.
>> Will Sentance: Very good,
exactly, instructions.
And we call that instructions, there is
the 2 gets parsed into the local memory.
Call stack, what happens?
>> Griffin: It gets push out of there.
>> Will Sentance: Gets pushed on again.
A new execution context.
Inside, what's the first data pairing?
>> Griffin: Input and 2.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, input and 2,
and we to 2 by 2, which becomes 4.
Out it returns, return out 4.
That means this little portion here,
multiplyBy2,
the input of 2 is evaluated to 4,
and that 4 gets pushed where?
>> Griffin: To outputs?
>> Will Sentance: Perfect, there it is,
and then it gets created again we get 6.
Our output is now 2,4,6 and
we hit the key line, Mohamed which is?
What's the final line of the function?
>> Griffin: Return output.
>> Will Sentance: Return, see I have
an amazing habit of always calling on
the same people for the same thing.
So what will it actually return out,
Mohamed?
>> Mohammed: 2, 4, 6.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah,
the value associated with output, right?
JavaScript never sees a word and
leaves it.
It evaluates everything down
to its lowest possible part.
So it sees the word output,
it goes hold on, what is that?
It's 2, 4, 6, returns that.
Output out, 2,4,6, and where do we
say Mohamed we're gonna assign it?
>> Mohammed: To the label result.
>> Will Sentance: To the label result,
and there it is.
So this is hard, this is supposedly
profound areas of JavaScript.
We'll see in a moment we have already
encountered all the material of high
order functions list with cool backs.
But I wanna have thumps in
a moment on what we saw here.
But look we achieved with generalized
copyArrayandManipulate, and
then a specific little baby
function that we passed in, for
the specifics,
of what we're gonna do to each element.
We achieved exactly the same as we
did with copyArrayAndMultiplyBy2.
Where we took in 1, 2, and 3,
and came out with 2, 4, and 6.
Look at this, went in 1, 2,
3, but we add no specificity
of multiplyBy2 in there,
instead we left a placeholder.
Which we then determined what it would be
when we called copyArrayAndManipulate and
what do we end up with?
But 2, 4, 6, the very same result.
We could have parsed in not
multiplyBy2 but add 3 or divide by 2.
We ended up with the same results.
We parametrized,
we generalized our function.